Air Scamp
  Type: creature · Pack: Monster Core
  Key: pathfinder-monster-core:MSm1im7lZA5i82rz

Classification
  Level: 1
  Rarity: common
  Traits: air, elemental
  Size: sm
  Source: Pathfinder Monster Core

Defenses
  AC: 16
  HP: current 12; maximum 12; temporary 0; fast healing 2 (in open air)
  Fortitude: 3
  Reflex: 9
  Will: 7
  Immunities: bleed, paralyzed, poison, sleep

Awareness and abilities
  Perception: +3; fog vision; darkvision
  Initiative: perception
  Languages: sussuran
  Abilities: Str +1, Dex +4, Con +0, Int -2, Wis +0, Cha +0
  Acrobatics: +7
  Stealth: +7

Movement
  land: 20 feet
  fly: 40 feet

Strikes
  - Jaws — [1 action]
    Traits: finesse, unarmed
    Attack: attack +9
    Damage: 1d6+1 piercing

Activities
  - Fog Vision — passive
    Category: interaction
  - Fast Healing 2 (In Open Air) — passive
    Category: defensive
  - Sirocco Breath — [2 actions]
    Traits: air, arcane
    Category: offensive

Spellcasting
  - Arcane Innate Spells — innate · arcane
    Attack: +9
    DC: 17
    Rank 2
      - Blur — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, illusion, manipulate, visual
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: touch
        Time: 2
    Rank 1
      - Gust of Wind — [2 actions]
        Traits: air, concentrate, manipulate
        Time: 2
        Damage: 2d6 bludgeoning damage

Public Notes
  A pale blue head and paper-thin wings peek out from the cloud that clings to
  the air scamp. Air scamps are short-sighted and flighty, even relative to
  their kin; they are as likely to fly recklessly into battle as they are to
  whine in terror at a loud noise.
  ---
  Elemental scamps are bat-like critters marked by elemental powers. Scamps are
  dispatched from the Elemental Planes by more powerful residents or called to
  the Universe by neophyte summoners. All scamps have a hint of magical power
  due to a lingering connection to their home plane, which they largely use to
  pull simple pranks.
  Scamps rapidly form a pecking order of cleverness. Humanoids often confuse
  scamps when meeting such creatures for the first time. These confused scamps
  usually resort to an escalating series of pranks and mischief, seeing what
  they can get away with to establish their place in the hierarchy.

Blur
  The target's form appears blurry. It becomes Concealed. As the nature of this
  effect still leaves the target's location obvious, the target can't use this
  concealment to Hide or Sneak.

Gust of Wind
  A violent wind issues forth from your palm, blowing from the point where you
  are when you Cast the Spell to the line's opposite end. The wind extinguishes
  small non-magical fires, disperses fog and mist, blows objects of light Bulk
  or less around, and pushes larger objects. Large or smaller creatures in the
  area must attempt a Fortitude save. Large or smaller creatures that later move
  into the gust must attempt the save on entering.
  ---
  Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
  Success The creature can't move against the wind.
  Failure The creature is knocked Prone. If it was flying, it takes the effects
  of critical failure instead.
  Critical Failure The creature is pushed 30 feet in the wind's direction,
  knocked prone, and takes 2d6 bludgeoning damage.

Fog Vision
  The air scamp ignores the Concealed condition from fog and mist.

Fast Healing 2 (In Open Air)
  PF2E.NPC.Abilities.Glossary.FastHealing

Sirocco Breath
  The air scamp creates cutting winds in a cone that deal 2d6[slashing] damage
  to each creature within the area (Reflex DC 17 save). A creature that fails
  its save is also pushed back 10 feet.
  The air scamp can't use Sirocco Breath again for 1d4 rounds.

Source and edition
  Publication: Pathfinder Monster Core
  Pack: Monster Core (pathfinder-monster-core)
  Edition: remaster
  Counterpart: legacy counterpart: Air Mephit
               (pathfinder-bestiary:KDRlxdIUADWHI6Vr)
