Balor
  Type: creature · Pack: Bestiary 1
  Key: pathfinder-bestiary:9vNYtJZiseCEf4wt

Classification
  Level: 20
  Rarity: common
  Traits: chaotic, demon, evil, fiend, unholy
  Size: lg
  Source: Pathfinder Bestiary

Defenses
  AC: 45
  HP: current 480; maximum 480; temporary 0
  Fortitude: 39
  Reflex: 35
  Will: 34
  All saves: +1 status to all saves vs. magic
  Immunities: fire
  Weaknesses: cold 20, cold-iron 20, holy 20

Awareness and abilities
  Perception: +36; darkvision
  Initiative: perception
  Languages: chthonian, draconic, empyrean
  Abilities: Str +9, Dex +7, Con +9, Int +6, Wis +6, Cha +8
  Acrobatics: +35
  Athletics: +37
  Deception: +36
  Diplomacy: +32
  Intimidation: +38
  Religion: +32
  Society: +32
  Stealth: +33

Movement
  land: 35 feet
  fly: 70 feet

Resources
  Focus: maximum 1

Strikes
  - Vorpal Cold Iron Silver Longsword — [1 action]
    Traits: evil, magical, reach-10, unholy, versatile-p
    Attack: attack +40
    Damage: 4d8+17 slashing
  - Cold Iron Silver Flame Whip — [1 action]
    Traits: disarm, evil, fire, magical, reach-20, trip, unholy
    Attack effects: improved-grab, whip-reposition
    Attack: attack +40
    Damage: 4d6+17 fire

Activities
  - Telepathy 100 feet — passive
    Traits: aura, magical
    Category: interaction
  - Constant Spells — passive
    Category: interaction
  - +1 Status to All Saves vs. Magic — passive
    Category: defensive
  - Attack of Opportunity (Special) — [reaction]
    Category: defensive
  - Aura of Flame — passive
    Traits: aura, divine, fire
    Category: defensive
  - Death Throes — passive
    Traits: death, divine, fire
    Category: defensive
  - Dimensional Dervish — passive
    Category: offensive
  - Dispelling Strike — [free action]
    Category: offensive
    Frequency: 1 per round
  - Infuse Weapons — passive
    Traits: divine
    Category: offensive
  - Lifedrinker — [free action]
    Traits: divine, healing
    Category: offensive
  - Whip Reposition — passive
    Category: offensive
  - Improved Grab — [free action]
    Category: offensive

Spellcasting
  - Divine Innate Spells — innate · divine
    Attack: +36
    DC: 44
    Rank 10
      - Divine Decree — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, sanctified
        Range: 40 feet
        Time: 2
        Damage: 7d10 spirit damage
      - Dimension Door — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, teleportation
        Range: 120 feet
        Time: 2
    Rank 6
      - Dominate (At Will) — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, incapacitation, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
      - True Seeing (Constant) — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, revelation
        Time: 2
    Rank 5
      - Dimension Door (At Will) — [1 action]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, teleportation
        Range: 120 feet
        Time: 1
    Rank 8
      - Dispel Magic (At Will) — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate
        Target: 1 spell effect or unattended magic item
        Range: 120 feet
        Time: 2
    Rank 1
      - Telekinetic Projectile — [2 actions]
        Traits: attack, cantrip, concentrate, manipulate
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
        Damage: 1d6 untyped damage
  - Abyssal Pact — 1 day
    Time: 1 day

Rituals
  Actor DC: 44

Public Notes
  When folk whisper frightened tales of the demonic, what most envision is the balor-a towering figure of fire and
  flesh, a horned nightmare armed with a flaming whip and a sword flying through the night in search of its latest
  victim. On the Abyss, balors serve demon lords as generals or captains, and they typically command vast legions of
  demons. Standing at 14 feet in height, only the cruelest mortal souls-those who devoted entire lives to sins too
  numerous to count-can fuel the formation of a balor. More often, a balor forms from a mass of dozens of mortal souls
  who shared debased ideologies in life.
  Heading: Balor Lords
  Those rare few balors who form from single souls are the ones most likely to eventually transcend the notable power
  they already wield, becoming a nascent demon lord. These balor lords are each unique creatures of 21st to 25th level
  in power who rule their own realm in the Abyss. In time, a balor lord can further develop into a unique creature with
  wildly different powers, even ascending to the role of a true demon lord.
  ---
  When a sinful mortal soul is judged and sent on to the Abyss, it can become a deadly fiend-a demon. Demons are living
  incarnations of sin-be they classic sins like wrath or gluttony, or more "specialized" depravities like an obsession
  with torture or the act of treason or treachery. Once formed, a demon's driving goals are twofold-the amassing of
  personal power, and the corruption of mortal souls to cause them to become tainted by sin. In this way demons ensure a
  never-ending supply of new demons to bolster their ever-growing ranks in the Abyss.

Divine Decree
  You utter a potent litany from your faith, a mandate that harms those who oppose your ideals. You deal 7d10 spirit
  damage to your enemies in the area; each enemy must attempt a Fortitude save.
  ---
  Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
  Success The creature takes half damage.
  Failure The creature takes full damage and is Enfeebled 2 for 1 minute.
  Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is enfeebled 2 for 1 minute. If you're on your home plane and
  the creature is not, the creature is sent back to its home plane. A creature of 10th level or lower must also succeed
  at a Will save or be Paralyzed for 1 minute; if it critically fails, it dies (this is a death effect).
  ---
  Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10, and the level of creatures that must attempt a second save on a critical
  failure increases by 2.

Dominate (At Will)
  You take command of the target, forcing it to obey your orders. If you issue an obviously self-destructive order, the
  target doesn't act until you issue a new order. The effect depends on its Will save.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success The target is Stunned 1 as it fights off your commands.
  Failure You control the target. It gains the Controlled condition, but it can attempt a Will save at the end of each
  of its turns. On a success, the spell ends.
  Critical Failure As a failure, but the target receives a new save only if you give it a new order that is against its
  nature, such as killing its allies.
  ---
  Heightened (10th) The duration is unlimited.

True Seeing (Constant)
  You see things within 60 feet as they actually are. The GM rolls a secret counteract check against any illusion or
  transmutation in the area, but only for the purpose of determining whether you see through it (for instance, if the
  check succeeds against a polymorph spell, you can see the creature's true form, but you don't end the polymorph
  spell).

Dimension Door
  Opening a door that bypasses normal space, you instantly transport yourself and any items you're wearing and holding
  from your current space to a clear space within range you can see. If this would bring another creature with you-even
  if you're carrying it in an extradimensional container-the spell is lost.
  ---
  Heightened (5th) The range increases to 1 mile. You don't need to be able to see your destination, as long as you have
  been there in the past and know its relative location and distance from you. You are temporarily immune for 1 hour.

Dimension Door (At Will)
  Opening a door that bypasses normal space, you instantly transport yourself and any items you're wearing and holding
  from your current space to a clear space within range you can see. If this would bring another creature with you-even
  if you're carrying it in an extradimensional container-the spell is lost.
  ---
  Heightened (5th) The range increases to 1 mile. You don't need to be able to see your destination, as long as you have
  been there in the past and know its relative location and distance from you. You are temporarily immune for 1 hour.

Dispel Magic (At Will)
  You unravel the magic behind a spell or effect. Attempt a counteract check against the target. If you successfully
  counteract a magic item, the item becomes a mundane item of its type for 10 minutes. This doesn't change the item's
  non-magical properties. If the target is an artifact or similar item, you automatically fail.

Abyssal Pact
  You call in a favor from another demon whose level is no more than double Abyssal pact's spell rank, two demons whose
  levels are each at least 2 less than double the spell rank, or three demons whose levels are each at least 3 less than
  double the spell rank.
  ---
  Critical Success You conjure the demon or demons. They are eager to pursue the task, so they don't ask for a favor.
  Success You conjure the demon or demons. They are not eager to pursue the task, so they require a favor in return.
  Failure You don't conjure any demons.
  Critical Failure The demon or demons are angry that you disturbed them. They appear before you, but they immediately
  attack you.

Telekinetic Projectile
  You hurl a loose, unattended object that is within range and that has 1 Bulk or less at the target. Make a spell
  attack roll against the target. If you hit, you deal bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage-as appropriate for the
  object you hurled-equal to 1d6 plus your spellcasting ability modifier. No specific traits or magic properties of the
  hurled item affect the attack or the damage.
  ---
  Critical Success You deal double damage.
  Success You deal full damage.
  ---
  Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6.

Longsword
  Longswords can be one-edged or two-edged swords. Their blades are heavy and they're between 3 and 4 feet in length.

Telepathy 100 feet
  PF2E.NPC.Abilities.Glossary.Telepathy

Constant Spells
  PF2E.NPC.Abilities.Glossary.ConstantSpells

Attack of Opportunity (Special)
  The balor can use Attack of Opportunity when a creature within their reach uses a concentrate action, in addition to
  its normal trigger. They can disrupt triggering concentrate actions, and they disrupt actions on any hit, not just a
  critical hit.
  ---
  PF2E.NPC.Abilities.Glossary.AttackOfOpportunity

Aura of Flame
  20 feet. A foe that starts its turn in the aura takes (3d6+10)[fire] damage, or (6d6+20)[fire] damage if the balor has
  Grabbed or Restrained it. A creature that hits a balor with an unarmed Strike takes (3d6+10)[fire] damage, and weapons
  that hit a balor take (3d6+10)[fire] damage.

Death Throes
  When a balor dies, their body explodes in a 100-foot aura of intense demonic flame. All creatures and objects in range
  take 16d10[fire] damage (Reflex DC 45 save). Because the flame is infused with Abyssal energy, creatures in the area
  apply only half their usual fire resistance. Creatures with immunity to fire use an outcome one degree of success
  better than what they rolled, instead of gaining the usual benefit of immunity. The bodies of creatures reduced to 0
  Hit Points by a balor's death throes are completely incinerated into fine ash.

Dimensional Dervish
  A balor can cast their 5th-rank innate Translocate with only a single action.

Dispelling Strike
  Frequency once per round.
  Trigger The balor hits a creature, object, or spell effect with a weapon Strike.
  ---
  Effect The balor casts an innate Dispel Magic on the target of the triggering Strike.

Infuse Weapons
  Any weapon a balor wields becomes a +3 Major Striking Vorpal weapon made of cold iron and silver while the demon holds
  it. A weapon that isn't eligible for the vorpal rune doesn't gain its effects. The demon can conjure a whip made of
  flames with an Interact action. This whip gains the same benefits as other weapons the balor wields.

Lifedrinker
  Trigger The balor kills a living creature that is at least 15th level.
  ---
  Effect The balor drinks the triggering creature's life force and regains (10d8+80)[healing] Hit Points.

Whip Reposition
  When a balor Grabs a creature with a whip Strike, they can move the creature to any space in the whip's reach. The
  balor can move without ending the grab as long as the creature remains within the whip's reach, and the balor can move
  the creature to any other space in the whip's reach with an Interact action.

Improved Grab
  PF2E.NPC.Abilities.Glossary.ImprovedGrab

Source and edition
  Publication: Pathfinder Bestiary
  Pack: Bestiary 1 (pathfinder-bestiary)
  Edition: legacy
  Counterparts: verified: none

Data availability
  Unsupported capability
    Key: weapon
    The source supplied an unsupported creature capability.
