Beluthus
  Type: creature · Pack: Abomination Vaults
  Key: abomination-vaults-bestiary:3ry9WSvMMXHUe3kE

Classification
  Level: 11
  Rarity: unique
  Traits: evil, undead, unholy
  Size: sm
  Source: Pathfinder Abomination Vaults Hardcover Compilation

Defenses
  AC: 31
  HP: current 175; maximum 175; temporary 0; (void healing)
  Fortitude: 20
  Reflex: 18
  Will: 24
  All saves: +1 status to all saves vs. magic
  Immunities: death-effects, disease, paralyzed, poison, spell-deflection, unconscious

Awareness and abilities
  Perception: +22; darkvision
  Initiative: perception
  Languages: chthonian, common, diabolic, empyrean, necril
  Abilities: Str +7, Dex +3, Con +5, Int +5, Wis +4, Cha +5
  Arcana: +21
  Deception: +21
  Intimidation: +23
  Occultism: +23
  Stealth: +19

Movement
  land: 30 feet
  fly: 30 feet

Resources
  Focus: maximum 1

Strikes
  - Claw — [1 action]
    Traits: agile, reach-10, unarmed
    Attack effects: drain-life
    Attack: attack +24
    Damage: 2d10+13 slashing

Activities
  - +1 Status to All Saves vs. Magic — passive
    Category: defensive
  - Spell Deflection — passive
    Traits: divine, mental
    Category: defensive
  - Void Healing — passive
    Category: defensive
  - Devour Soul — [2 actions]
    Traits: death, divine
    Category: offensive
  - Drain Life — passive
    Traits: divine
    Category: offensive
  - Soul Spells — passive
    Category: offensive

Spellcasting
  - Occult Innate Spells — innate · occult
    Attack: +21
    DC: 31
    Rank 6
      - Feeblemind — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, curse, incapacitation, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
      - True Seeing — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, revelation
        Time: 2
    Rank 4
      - Confusion — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, emotion, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
      - Suggestion — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, incapacitation, linguistic, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
    Rank 3
      - Bind Undead — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate
        Target: 1 mindless undead creature with a level no greater than bind undead's spell rank
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
      - Paralyze — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, incapacitation, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
    Rank 2
      - Death Knell — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, death, manipulate
        Target: 1 living creature that has 0 HP
        Range: touch
        Time: 2
    Rank 1
      - Harm — 1 to 3
        Traits: manipulate, void
        Target: 1 living creature or 1 willing undead creature
        Range: varies
        Time: 1 to 3
        Damage: 1d8 void damage healing
  - Create Undead — 1 day
    Traits: evil
    Cost: black onyx, see Table 7-1
    Target: 1 dead creature
    Range: 10 feet
    Time: 1 day

Rituals
  Actor DC: 31

Public Notes
  When fiends and powerful evil spellcasters are lost beyond the farthest reaches of the multiverse, they sometimes
  return as horrific undead called devourers that consume the souls of the living to fuel their arcane machinations.
  Their bodies are ruined and rebuilt, hollow and twisted, even as their minds undergo a spiritual transformation. They
  gain the ability to bind other souls to their own and drain their essence for magical power, yet can never be sated in
  their pursuit of it. Seething masses of distorted ghostly shapes surge within their hollow rib cages-manifestations of
  the devourers' most recently consumed souls.

Summary
  Male devourer (Pathfinder Bestiary 2 78)

Feeblemind
  You drastically reduce the target's mental faculties. The target must attempt a Will save. The effects of this curse
  can be removed only through remove curse or another effect that targets curses.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success The target is Stupefied 2 for 1 round.
  Failure The target is Stupefied 4 with an unlimited duration.
  Critical Failure The target's intellect is permanently reduced below that of an animal, and it treats its Charisma,
  Intelligence, and Wisdom modifiers as -5. It loses all class abilities that require mental faculties, including all
  spellcasting. If the target is a PC, they become an NPC under the GM's control.

True Seeing
  You see things within 60 feet as they actually are. The GM rolls a secret counteract check against any illusion or
  transmutation in the area, but only for the purpose of determining whether you see through it (for instance, if the
  check succeeds against a polymorph spell, you can see the creature's true form, but you don't end the polymorph
  spell).

Confusion
  You befuddle your target with strange impulses, causing it to act randomly. The effects are determined by the target's
  Will save. You can Dismiss the spell.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success The target babbles incoherently and is Stunned 1.
  Failure The target is Confused for 1 minute. It can attempt a new save at the end of each of its turns to end the
  confusion.
  Critical Failure The target is Confused for 1 minute, with no save to end early.
  ---
  Heightened (8th) You can target up to 10 creatures.

Suggestion
  Your honeyed words are difficult for creatures to resist. You suggest a course of action to the target, which must be
  phrased in such a way as to seem like a logical course of action to the target and can't be self-destructive or
  obviously against the target's self-interest. The target must attempt a Will save.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected and knows you tried to control it.
  Success The target is unaffected and thinks you were talking to them normally, not casting a spell on them.
  Failure The target immediately follows your suggestion. The spell has a duration of 1 minute, or until the target has
  completed a finite suggestion or the suggestion becomes self-destructive or has other obvious negative effects.
  Critical Failure As failure, but the base duration is 1 hour.
  ---
  Heightened (8th) You can target up to 10 creatures.

Bind Undead
  With a word of power, you seize control of the target. It gains the minion trait. If you or an ally uses any hostile
  actions against the target, the spell ends.
  Spell Effect: Bind Undead

Paralyze
  You block the target's motor impulses before they can leave its mind, threatening to freeze the target in place. The
  target must attempt a Will save.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success The target is Stunned 1.
  Failure The target is Paralyzed for 1 round.
  Critical Failure The target is Paralyzed for 4 rounds. At the end of each of its turns, it can attempt a new Will save
  to reduce the remaining duration by 1 round, or end it entirely on a critical success.
  ---
  Heightened (7th) You can target up to 10 creatures.

Create Undead
  You transform the target into an undead creature with a level up to that allowed in Table 7-1. There are many versions
  of this ritual, each specific to a particular type of undead (one ritual for all zombies, one for skeletons, one for
  ghouls, and so on), and the rituals that create rare undead are also rare. Some forms of undead, such as liches, form
  using their own unique methods and can't be created with a version of create undead.
  Heading: Table 7-1: Creatures Creation Rituals
  Row: 1
    Column 1: Creature Level
    Column 2: Spell Rank Required
    Column 3: Cost
  Row: 2
    Column 1: -1 or 0
    Column 2: 2
    Column 3: 15 gp
  Row: 3
    Column 1: 1
    Column 2: 2
    Column 3: 60 gp
  Row: 4
    Column 1: 2
    Column 2: 3
    Column 3: 105 gp
  Row: 5
    Column 1: 3
    Column 2: 3
    Column 3: 180 gp
  Row: 6
    Column 1: 4
    Column 2: 4
    Column 3: 300 gp
  Row: 7
    Column 1: 5
    Column 2: 4
    Column 3: 480 gp
  Row: 8
    Column 1: 6
    Column 2: 5
    Column 3: 750 gp
  Row: 9
    Column 1: 7
    Column 2: 5
    Column 3: 1,080 gp
  Row: 10
    Column 1: 8
    Column 2: 6
    Column 3: 1,500 gp
  Row: 11
    Column 1: 9
    Column 2: 6
    Column 3: 2,100 gp
  Row: 12
    Column 1: 10
    Column 2: 7
    Column 3: 3,000 gp
  Row: 13
    Column 1: 11
    Column 2: 7
    Column 3: 4,200 gp
  Row: 14
    Column 1: 12
    Column 2: 8
    Column 3: 6,000 gp
  Row: 15
    Column 1: 13
    Column 2: 8
    Column 3: 9,000 gp
  Row: 16
    Column 1: 14
    Column 2: 9
    Column 3: 13,500 gp
  Row: 17
    Column 1: 15
    Column 2: 9
    Column 3: 19,500 gp
  Row: 18
    Column 1: 16
    Column 2: 10
    Column 3: 30,000 gp
  Row: 19
    Column 1: 17
    Column 2: 10
    Column 3: 45,000 gp
  Critical Success The target becomes an undead creature of the appropriate type. If it's at least 4 levels lower than
  you, you can make it a minion. This gives it the minion trait, meaning it can use 2 actions when you command it, and
  commanding it is a single action that has the auditory and concentrate traits. You can have a maximum of four minions
  under your control. If it's intelligent and doesn't become a minion, the undead is helpful to you for awakening it,
  though it's still a horrid and evil creature. If it's unintelligent and doesn't become a minion, you can give it one
  simple command. It pursues that goal single-mindedly, ignoring any of your subsequent commands.
  Success As critical success, except an intelligent undead that doesn't become your minion is only friendly to you, and
  an unintelligent undead that doesn't become your minion leaves you alone unless you attack it. It marauds the local
  area rather than following your command.
  Failure You fail to create the undead.
  Critical Failure You create the undead, but its soul, tortured by your foul necromancy, is full of nothing but hatred
  for you. It attempts to destroy you.

Death Knell
  You snuff the life out of a creature on the brink of death. The target must attempt a Will save. If this kills it, you
  gain 10 temporary HP and a +1 status bonus to attack and damage rolls for 10 minutes.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success The target's Dying value increases by 1.
  Failure The target dies.
  Spell Effect: Death Knell

Harm
  You channel void energy to harm the living or heal the undead. If the target is a living creature, you deal 1d8 void
  damage to it, and it gets a basic Fortitude save. If the target is a willing undead creature, you restore that amount
  of Hit Points. The number of actions you spend when Casting this Spell determines its targets, range, area, and other
  parameters.
  1 (somatic) The spell has a range of touch.
  2 (verbal, somatic) The spell has a range of 30 feet. If you're healing an undead creature, increase the Hit Points
  restored by 8.
  3 (material, verbal, somatic) You disperse void energy in a 30-foot emanation. This targets all living and undead
  creatures in the area.
  ---
  Heightened (+1) The amount of healing or damage increases by 1d8, and the extra healing for the 2-action version
  increases by 8.

Spell Deflection
  A spellcaster who targets a devourer with a mental spell, Banishment, Seize Soul, Divine Decree, Divine Wrath,
  Possession, Spirit Blast, or Spirit Song can attempt a counteract check to free a soul the devourer has trapped with
  Devour Soul. If this counteract attempt succeeds, the trapped soul is released (though the creature remains dead), and
  the devourer can't use any soul charges from that creature.
  Devourers are otherwise immune to these spells.

Void Healing
  PF2E.NPC.Abilities.Glossary.NegativeHealing

Devour Soul
  The devourer touches a creature within reach, dealing 8d6[void] damage (Fortitude DC 31 save). If a creature is slain
  by this attack, its soul becomes trapped within the devourer. While its soul is trapped, a creature can't be
  resurrected except by powerful magic such as a Wish spell. Destroying the devourer or successfully counteracting
  Devour Soul (see spell deflection) releases the soul. The devourer can hold only one soul at a time.
  A soul has 5 soul charges per level of the originating creature (see the soul spells ability below). The devourer can
  expend these charges to cast spells. If the soul is freed and the creature returns to life, the creature is Drained 1
  for every 5 soul charges expended. If reduced to 0 soul charges, the soul is consumed and can be restored to life only
  by powerful magic such as wish.

Drain Life
  When the devourer damages a living creature with its claw Strike, the devourer gains 10 temporary Hit Points and the
  creature must succeed at a Fortitude DC 24 save or become Drained 1. Further damage dealt by the devourer increases
  the condition value by 1 on a failed save, to a maximum of drained 4.

Soul Spells
  A devourer casts occult innate spells, but to do so it must expend a number of soul charges equal to the spell's rank
  (similar to casting a spell using charges from a staff). It can heighten any spell to a maximum of 6th level by
  expending more charges as it Casts the Spell. When encountered, a devourer typically has one trapped soul with 10 soul
  charges.

Source and edition
  Publication: Pathfinder Abomination Vaults Hardcover Compilation
  Pack: Abomination Vaults (abomination-vaults-bestiary)
  Edition: legacy
  Counterparts: verified: none
