Air Mephit
  Type: creature · Pack: Bestiary 1
  Key: pathfinder-bestiary:KDRlxdIUADWHI6Vr

Classification
  Level: 1
  Rarity: common
  Traits: air, elemental
  Size: sm
  Source: Pathfinder Bestiary

Defenses
  AC: 16
  HP: current 12; maximum 12; temporary 0; fast healing 2 (in open air)
  Fortitude: 3
  Reflex: 19
  Will: 7
  Immunities: bleed, paralyzed, poison, sleep

Awareness and abilities
  Perception: +3; darkvision
  Initiative: perception
  Languages: sussuran
  Abilities: Str +1, Dex +4, Con +0, Int -2, Wis +0, Cha +0
  Acrobatics: +7
  Stealth: +7

Movement
  land: 20 feet
  fly: 40 feet

Resources
  Focus: maximum 1

Strikes
  - Claw — [1 action]
    Traits: agile, finesse, unarmed
    Attack: attack +9
    Damage: 1d6+1 slashing

Activities
  - Fast Healing 2 (In Open Air) — passive
    Category: defensive
  - Breath Weapon — [2 actions]
    Traits: air, arcane
    Category: offensive

Spellcasting
  - Arcane Innate Spells — innate · arcane
    Attack: +9
    DC: 17
    Rank 2
      - Blur — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, illusion, manipulate, visual
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: touch
        Time: 2
    Rank 1
      - Gust of Wind — [2 actions]
        Traits: air, concentrate, manipulate
        Time: 2

Public Notes
  Air mephits are capricious and flighty relative to their kin; they are as likely to fly blindly into battle as they
  are to whine in terror at a loud noise. They are pale blue in coloration and have thin wings that trail small puffs of
  vapor as they fly through the skies.
  ---
  Mephits-sometimes known as elemental scamps-are little bipedal critters with bat-like wings who serve stronger
  elementals on the Elemental Planes or neophyte spellcasters who summon them to the Material Plane. All mephits have an
  inkling of magical power as well as a breath weapon.

Blur
  The target's form appears blurry. It becomes Concealed. As the nature of this effect still leaves the target's
  location obvious, the target can't use this concealment to Hide or Sneak.

Gust of Wind
  A violent wind issues forth from your palm, blowing from the point where you are when you cast the spell to the line's
  opposite end. The wind extinguishes small non-magical fires, disperses fog and mist, blows objects of light Bulk or
  less around, and pushes larger objects. Large or smaller creatures in the area must attempt a Fortitude save. Large or
  smaller creatures that later move into the gust must attempt the save on entering.
  ---
  Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
  Success The creature can't move against the wind.
  Failure The creature is knocked Prone. If it was flying, it suffers the effects of critical failure instead.
  Critical Failure The creature is pushed 30 feet in the wind's direction, knocked Prone, and takes 2d6 bludgeoning
  damage.

Fast Healing 2 (In Open Air)
  PF2E.NPC.Abilities.Glossary.FastHealing

Breath Weapon
  The air mephit breathes sand and grit in a cone that deals 2d6[slashing] damage to each creature within the area
  (Reflex DC 17 save).
  The air mephit can't use Breath Weapon again for 1d4 rounds.

Provenance and edition
  Publication: Pathfinder Bestiary
  Pack: Bestiary 1 (pathfinder-bestiary)
  Source path: packs/pathfinder-bestiary/air-mephit.json
  Foundry: Actor / npc
  Edition: legacy
  Counterpart: remastered counterpart: Air Scamp (pathfinder-monster-core:MSm1im7lZA5i82rz)
  Contract: pf2e-serialized-source/v1
  System: 6.12.4
  Upstream commit: 4cbdaa37d6c33e9519561bae2c59a23e0288cbce
