Night Hag
  Type: creature · Pack: Bestiary 1
  Key: pathfinder-bestiary:WQy7HBUcgDLsfVJd

Classification
  Level: 9
  Rarity: common
  Traits: evil, fiend, hag, humanoid, unholy
  Size: med
  Source: Pathfinder Bestiary

Defenses
  AC: 28
  HP: current 170; maximum 170; temporary 0
  Fortitude: 19
  Reflex: 17
  Will: 18
  All saves: +2 status to all saves vs. magic, -2 to all saves (if heartstone is lost)
  Immunities: sleep
  Resistances: mental 10
  Weaknesses: cold-iron 10

Awareness and abilities
  Perception: +18; darkvision
  Initiative: perception
  Languages: aklo, chthonian, common, diabolic, empyrean
  Abilities: Str +5, Dex +4, Con +6, Int +4, Wis +5, Cha +3
  Arcana: +18
  Deception: +18
  Diplomacy: +18
  Intimidation: +14
  Occultism: +20
  Religion: +20

Movement
  land: 25 feet

Resources
  Focus: maximum 1

Strikes
  - Jaws — [1 action]
    Traits: magical, unarmed, unholy
    Attack effects: abyssal-plague
    Attack: attack +20
    Damage: 1d6 spirit
    Damage: 2d8+8 piercing
  - Claw — [1 action]
    Traits: agile, magical, unarmed, unholy
    Attack: attack +20
    Damage: 2d10+8 slashing
    Damage: 1d6 spirit

Activities
  - Coven — passive
    Traits: mental, occult
    Category: interaction
  - Nightmare Rider — passive
    Category: interaction
  - Constant Spells — passive
    Category: interaction
  - +2 Status to All Saves vs. Magic — passive
    Category: defensive
  - -2 to All Saves (If Heartstone is Lost) — passive
    Category: defensive
  - Abyssal Plague — passive
    Traits: disease
    Category: offensive
  - Change Shape — [1 action]
    Traits: concentrate, occult, polymorph
    Category: offensive
  - Dream Haunting — passive
    Traits: mental, occult
    Category: offensive
  - Spell Ambush — passive
    Category: offensive

Spellcasting
  - Occult Innate Spells — innate · occult
    Attack: +20
    DC: 28
    Rank 9
      - Bind Soul (At Will) (Heartstone) — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, evil, manipulate
        Cost: black sapphire with a gp value of at least the target's level × 100
        Target: 1 creature that died within the last minute
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
      - Ethereal Jaunt (At Will) (Heartstone) — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, teleportation
        Time: 2
    Rank 8
      - Dream Council — 10 minutes
        Traits: concentrate, illusion, manipulate, mental, sleep
        Target: up to 12 creatures you know by name and have met in person
        Range: planetary
        Time: 10 minutes
    Rank 5
      - Shadow Blast (Heartstone) — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, shadow
        Range: varies
        Time: 2
        Damage: 5d8 untyped damage
      - Nightmare — 10 minutes
        Traits: concentrate, illusion, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature you know by name
        Range: planetary
        Time: 10 minutes
    Rank 3
      - Dream Message (At Will) — 10 minutes
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature you know by name and have met in person
        Range: planetary
        Time: 10 minutes
      - Magic Missile (At Will) — 1 to 3
        Traits: concentrate, force, manipulate
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 120 feet
        Time: 1 to 3
        Damage: 1d4+1 force damage
    Rank 2
      - Invisibility (At Will) — [2 actions]
        Traits: illusion, manipulate
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: touch
        Time: 2
      - Detect Alignment (Constant) (All Alignments) — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, detection, manipulate
        Time: 2
    Rank 1
      - Detect Magic (Constant) (3rd) — [2 actions]
        Traits: cantrip, concentrate, detection, manipulate
        Time: 2
      - Ray of Enfeeblement (At Will) — [2 actions]
        Traits: attack, concentrate, manipulate
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
      - Sleep (At Will) — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, incapacitation, manipulate, mental, sleep
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
  - Coven Spells — innate · occult
    Attack: +15
    DC: 23
    Rank 8
      - Baleful Polymorph — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, incapacitation, manipulate, polymorph
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
    Rank 6
      - Dominate — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, incapacitation, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
      - Scrying — 10 minutes
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, scrying
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: planetary
        Time: 10 minutes
      - Spellwrack — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, curse, force, manipulate
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
    Rank 5
      - Illusory Scene — 10 minutes
        Traits: auditory, concentrate, illusion, manipulate, olfactory, visual
        Range: 500 feet
        Time: 10 minutes
      - Prying Eye — 1 minute
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, scrying
        Range: see text
        Time: 1 minute
      - Clairvoyance — 1 minute
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, scrying
        Range: 500 feet
        Time: 1 minute
      - Talking Corpse — 10 minutes
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate
        Target: 1 corpse
        Range: touch
        Time: 10 minutes
      - Clairaudience — 1 minute
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, scrying
        Range: 500 feet
        Time: 1 minute
      - Dream Message — 10 minutes
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature you know by name and have met in person
        Range: planetary
        Time: 10 minutes
      - Augury — 10 minutes
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, prediction
        Time: 10 minutes
      - Charm — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, emotion, incapacitation, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
      - Illusory Disguise — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, illusion, manipulate, visual
        Time: 2
    Rank 4
      - Nightmare — 10 minutes
        Traits: concentrate, illusion, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature you know by name
        Range: planetary
        Time: 10 minutes
  - Control Weather — 1 day
    Time: 1 day

Rituals
  Actor DC: 23

Equipment
  - Heartstone
    Traits: invested, occult
    Level: 9
    Usage: worn
    Quantity: 1

Public Notes
  Night hags are thieves and merchants of mortal souls. These foul creatures collect souls in dark gems or crystalline
  jars to sell in fiendish markets, and are themselves empowered by potent magic jewels known as Heartstones. They haunt
  the Ethereal Plane, where they prey upon mortals in their dreams, debilitating them with horrific nightmares as they
  rest. A night hag may find a particular target and haunt them continuously over the course of weeks, slowly and
  cruelly breaking down the victim's will and ability to resist, until their soul is forfeit.
  A night hag is a canny mastermind and soul broker, willing to consider any deal as long as she is convinced she has
  the upper hand. Although a night hag finds it easy to travel the Ethereal Plane and prey upon helpless souls that
  can't fight back, these souls are also the least desirable to the evil outsiders the night hag bargains with, and so a
  night hag gathers allies and minions that allow her to prey on more potent souls without personally risking herself.
  Their favored minions are Nightmares, with whom they share a special bond.
  Above all, night hags avoid fighting foes that can harry them on the Ethereal Plane, picking fights only when they are
  certain they can escape.
  ---
  Malevolent crones who lurk at the edges of civilization, hags use their deceptive, magical abilities to prey upon
  humanoids, manipulating and corrupting them. Some say hags arose from fey that became twisted by their inner
  selfishness. Hags gather together in covens for greater power, craft unique magical items known as Hag Eyes, and are
  known to replace infant humanoids with their own offspring-these children areChangelings who have the potential to
  become hags themselves.

Bind Soul (At Will) (Heartstone)
  You wrench the target's soul away before it can pass on to the afterlife and imprison it in a black sapphire. While
  the soul is in the gem, the target can't be returned to life through any means, even powerful magic such as wish. If
  the gem is destroyed or bind soul is counteracted on the gem, the soul is freed. The gem has AC 16 and Hardness 10. A
  gem can't hold more than one soul, and any attempt wastes the spell.

Control Weather
  You alter the weather, making it calm and normal for the season or choosing up to two effects based on the season.
  You can't specifically control the manifestations, such as the exact path of a tornado or the targets of lightning
  strikes.
  - Autumn cold weather, fog, mild heat, sleet
  - Spring drizzle, heat, hurricane, sleet, thunderstorm, tornado
  - Summer drizzle, downpour, extreme heat, hail, heat
  - Winter blizzard, mild cold, extreme cold, thaw
  ---
  Critical Success You change the weather as desired and can affect a larger area (up to a 5-mile-radius circle), or a
  longer duration (any number of additional d12 hours, up to 16d12).
  Success You change the weather as desired.
  Failure You fail to change the weather as desired.
  Critical Failure The weather changes in an unanticipated way, determined by the GM but generally as contradictory to
  your true desires as possible (for instance, a terrible storm emerges when you would prefer good weather).
  ---
  Heightened (9th) You can create unseasonable weather and contradictory weather effects, such as extreme cold and a
  hurricane. You can make the weather calm and normal weather for a different season or choose weather effects from any
  season's list.

Dream Council
  When you Cast this Spell, any targets-including you-can choose to immediately fall asleep. The spell ends for any
  creatures that don't choose to fall asleep. Sleepers join a shared dream, where they can communicate with one another
  as though they were in the same room. Individual targets leave this shared dream upon awakening, and if all the
  targets awaken, the spell ends.

Ethereal Jaunt (At Will) (Heartstone)
  You travel to the Ethereal Plane, which overlaps the Material Plane. Material Plane creatures can't see you, and you
  can move through things on the Material Plane. You move at half your normal Speeds, but can move in any direction
  (including up and down). You can see onto the Material Plane within a radius of 60 feet; it is gray, hazy, and
  Concealed from you. You can't affect the Material Plane, and you can't be affected by the Material Plane except by
  force effects and abjurations originating there. When the spell ends, you return to the Material Plane. If you're in
  the air, you fall (unless you can fly), and if you're inside an object, you're pushed into the nearest open space and
  take 1d6 damage per 5 feet you were pushed. If you cast this spell when not on the Material Plane, it is lost.
  ---
  Heightened (9th) You can target up to five additional willing creatures at a range of 30 feet. The duration is up to
  10 minutes.

Baleful Polymorph
  You transform the target creature into a harmless animal appropriate to the area, with effects based on its Fortitude
  save.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success The target's body gains minor features of the harmless animal. Its insides churn as they partially transform,
  causing it to be Sickened 1. When it recovers from the Sickened condition, its features revert to normal.
  Failure The target transforms for 1 minute but keeps its mind. If it spends all its actions on its turn concentrating
  on its original form, it can attempt a Will save to end the effect immediately.
  Critical Failure The target is transformed into the chosen harmless animal, body and mind, for an unlimited duration.

Dominate
  You take command of the target, forcing it to obey your orders. If you issue an obviously self-destructive order, the
  target doesn't act until you issue a new order. The effect depends on its Will save.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success The target is Stunned 1 as it fights off your commands.
  Failure You control the target. It gains the Controlled condition, but it can attempt a Will save at the end of each
  of its turns. On a success, the spell ends.
  Critical Failure As a failure, but the target receives a new save only if you give it a new order that is against its
  nature, such as killing its allies.
  ---
  Heightened (10th) The duration is unlimited.

Scrying
  You magically spy on a creature of your choice. Scrying works like Clairvoyance, except that the image you receive is
  less precise, insufficient for teleport and similar spells. Instead of creating an eye in a set location within 500
  feet, you instead create an eye that manifests just above the target. You can choose a target either by name or by
  touching one of its possessions or a piece of its body. If you haven't met the target in person, scrying's DC is 2
  lower, and if you are unaware of the target's identity (perhaps because you found an unknown creature's fang at a
  crime scene), the DC is instead 10 lower. The effect of scrying depends on the target's Will save.
  ---
  Critical Success The spell fails and the target is temporarily immune for 1 week. The target also gains a glimpse of
  you and learns its rough distance and direction from you.
  Success The spell fails and the target is temporarily immune for 1 day.
  Failure The spell succeeds.
  Critical Failure The spell succeeds, and the eye follows the target if it moves, traveling up to 60 feet per round.

Spellwrack
  You cause any spells cast on the target to spill out their energy in harmful surges. The target must attempt a Will
  save.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success Whenever the target becomes affected by a spell with a duration, the target takes 2d12[persistent,force]
  damage. Each time it takes persistent force damage from spellwrack, it reduces the remaining duration of spells
  affecting it by 1 round. Only a successful Arcana check against your spell DC can help the target recover from the
  Persistent Damage; the curse and the Persistent Damage end after 1 minute.
  Failure As success, but the curse and Persistent Damage do not end on their own.
  Critical Failure As failure, but the persistent force damage is 4d12[persistent,force] damage.

Illusory Scene
  You form an imaginary scene that includes up to 10 discrete creatures or objects of various sizes, all of which must
  be within the spell's area. These elements generate appropriate sounds and smells, and they feel right to the touch.
  Elements of an illusory scene are incapable of speech. Unlike with the Illusory Creature spell, creatures in your
  scene lack combat abilities and statistics. Your scene doesn't include changes to the environment around it, though
  you can place your scene within the illusory environment of a Mirage spell.
  When you create the scene, you can choose to have it be static or follow a program. Though a static scene is
  stationary, it includes basic natural movement. For example, wind blowing on an illusory piece of paper would rustle
  it. A program can be up to 1 minute long and repeats when finished. For instance, you could create a scene of two orcs
  fighting each other, and the fight would go the same way for each repetition. If you create a loop, the two fighters
  end up in the same place at the start of the scene and at the end of it, but you can smooth the program so it's hard
  to tell when the loop ends and begins. Anyone observing the scene for more than a few minutes almost always notices it
  looping. You're unable to alter the program after you create the illusion.
  Any creature that touches any part of the image or uses the Seek action to examine it can attempt to disbelieve your
  illusion. If they interact with a portion of the illusion, they disbelieve only that portion. They disbelieve the
  entire scene only on a critical success.
  ---
  Heightened (6th) Creatures or objects in your scene can speak. You must speak the specific lines for each actor when
  creating your program. The spell disguises your voice for each actor.
  Heightened (8th) As the 6th-rank version, and the duration is unlimited.

Prying Eye
  You create an Invisible, floating eye, 1 inch in diameter, at a location you can see within 500 feet. It sees in all
  directions with your normal visual senses and continuously transmits what it sees to you. The first time you Sustain
  the Spell each round, you can either move the eye up to 30 feet, seeing only things in front of the eye, or move it up
  to 10 feet, seeing everything in all directions around it. There is no limit to how far from you the eye can move, but
  the spell ends immediately if you and the eye ever cease to be on the same plane of existence. You can attempt Seek
  actions through the eye if you want to attempt Perception checks with it. Any damage dealt to the eye destroys it and
  ends the spell.

Shadow Blast (Heartstone)
  You shape the quasi-real substance of the Shadow Plane into a blast. Choose acid, bludgeoning, cold, electricity,
  fire, force, piercing, slashing, or sonic damage, and choose a cone, a burst within 120 feet, or a line. The blast
  deals 5d8 damage of the type you chose to each creature in the area.
  ---
  Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8.

Clairvoyance
  You create an Invisible floating eye at a location within range (even if it's outside your line of sight or line of
  effect). The eye can't move, but you can see in all directions from that point as if using your normal visual senses.

Nightmare
  You send disturbing nightmares to your target. The next time the target falls asleep, it must attempt a Will save. If
  you know the target only by name and have never met them, the target gets a +4 circumstance bonus to the Will save.
  ---
  Critical Success The target suffers no adverse effects and is temporarily immune for 1 week.
  Success The target experiences the nightmares but suffers no adverse effects other than unpleasant memories.
  Failure The target experiences the nightmares and awakens Fatigued.
  Critical Failure The target experiences the nightmares, awakens Fatigued, and is Drained 2 until it is no longer
  Fatigued.

Nightmare
  You send disturbing nightmares to your target. The next time the target falls asleep, it must attempt a Will save. If
  you know the target only by name and have never met them, the target gets a +4 circumstance bonus to the Will save.
  ---
  Critical Success The target suffers no adverse effects and is temporarily immune for 1 week.
  Success The target experiences the nightmares but suffers no adverse effects other than unpleasant memories.
  Failure The target experiences the nightmares and awakens Fatigued.
  Critical Failure The target experiences the nightmares, awakens Fatigued, and is Drained 2 until it is no longer
  Fatigued.

Talking Corpse
  You grant the target corpse a semblance of life, which it uses to speak the answers to three questions posed to it.
  This spell calls on the physical body's latent memories rather than summoning back the deceased's spirit, so the
  corpse must be mostly intact for the spell to function. The more damage the corpse has taken, the more inaccurate or
  patchwork its answers are, and it must have a throat and mouth to speak at all. If anyone has previously cast this
  spell on the corpse in the last week, the spell automatically fails. The corpse can attempt a Will save to resist
  answering the questions using the statistics of the original creature at its time of death, with the following
  effects.
  ---
  Critical Success The target can lie or refuse to answer your questions, and the target's spirit haunts you for 24
  hours, bothering you and causing you to be unable to gain any rest for that time.
  Success The target can provide false information or refuse to answer your questions.
  Failure The target must answer truthfully, but its answers can be brief, cryptic, and repetitive. It can still mislead
  you or attempt to stall so that the spell's duration runs out before you can ask all your questions.
  Critical Failure As failure, but the target's answers are more direct and less repetitive, though still cryptic. It
  takes a -2 status penalty to Deception checks to deceive or mislead you.

Clairaudience
  You create an Invisible floating ear at a location within range (even if it's outside your line of sight or line of
  effect). It can't move, but you can hear through the ear as if using your normal auditory senses.

Dream Message
  You send a message to your target's dream. The message is one-way, up to 1 minute of speech (roughly 150 words). If
  the target is asleep, they receive the message instantly. If not, they receive it the next time they sleep. As soon as
  they receive it, the spell ends, and you know the message was sent.
  ---
  Heightened (4th) You can target up to 10 creatures you know by name and have met in person. You must send the same
  message to all of them; the spell ends for each creature individually.

Dream Message (At Will)
  You send a message to your target's dream. The message is one-way, up to 1 minute of speech (roughly 150 words). If
  the target is asleep, they receive the message instantly. If not, they receive it the next time they sleep. As soon as
  they receive it, the spell ends, and you know the message was sent.
  ---
  Heightened (4th) You can target up to 10 creatures you know by name and have met in person. You must send the same
  message to all of them; the spell ends for each creature individually.

Augury
  You gain a vague glimpse of the future. During the casting of this spell, ask about the results of a particular course
  of action. The spell can predict results up to 30 minutes into the future and reveals the GM's best guess among the
  following outcomes:
  - Weal The results will be good.
  - Woe The results will be bad.
  - Weal and Woe The results will be a mix of good and bad.
  - Nothing There won't be particularly good or bad results.
  The GM rolls a secret Flat DC 6. On a failure, the result is always "nothing." This makes it impossible to tell
  whether a "nothing" result is accurate. If anyone asks about the same topic as the first casting of augury during an
  additional casting, the GM uses the secret roll result from the first casting. If circumstances change, though, it's
  possible to get a different result.

Invisibility (At Will)
  Cloaked in illusion, the target becomes Invisible. This makes it Undetected to all creatures, though the creatures can
  attempt to find the target, making it Hidden to them instead. If the target uses a hostile action, the spell ends
  after that hostile action is completed.
  ---
  Heightened (4th) The spell lasts 1 minute, but it doesn't end if the target uses a hostile action.

Charm
  To the target, your words are honey and your visage seems bathed in a dreamy haze. It must attempt a Will save, with a
  +4 circumstance bonus if you or your allies recently threatened it or used hostile actions against it.
  You can Dismiss the spell. If you use hostile actions against the target, the spell ends. When the spell ends, the
  target doesn't necessarily realize it was charmed unless its friendship with you or the actions you convinced it to
  take clash with its expectations, meaning you could potentially convince the target to continue being your friend via
  mundane means.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected and aware you tried to charm it.
  Success The target is unaffected but thinks your spell was something harmless instead of charm, unless it identifies
  the spell.
  Failure The target's attitude becomes Friendly toward you. If it was Friendly, it becomes Helpful. It can't use
  hostile actions against you.
  Critical Failure The target's attitude becomes Helpful toward you, and it can't use hostile actions against you.
  ---
  Heightened (4th) The duration lasts until the next time you make your daily preparations.
  Heightened (8th) The duration lasts until the next time you make your daily preparations, and you can target up to 10
  creatures.

Detect Alignment (Constant) (All Alignments)
  Your eyes glow as you sense aligned auras. Choose chaotic, evil, good, or lawful. You detect auras of that alignment.
  You receive no information beyond presence or absence. You can choose not to detect creatures or effects you're aware
  have that alignment.
  Only creatures of 6th level or higher-unless divine spellcasters, undead, or beings from the Outer Sphere-have
  alignment auras.
  ---
  Heightened (2nd) You learn each aura's location and strength.

Detect Magic (Constant) (3rd)
  You send out a pulse that registers the presence of magic. You receive no information beyond the presence or absence
  of magic. You can choose to ignore magic you're fully aware of, such as the magic items and ongoing spells of you and
  your allies.
  You detect illusion magic only if that magic's effect has a lower level than the rank of your detect magic spell.
  However, items that have an illusion aura but aren't deceptive in appearance (such as an invisibility potion)
  typically are detected normally.
  ---
  Heightened (3rd) You learn the school of magic for the highest-level effect within range that the spell detects. If
  multiple effects are equally strong, the GM determines which you learn.
  Heightened (4th) As 3rd level, but you also pinpoint the source of the highest-level magic. Like for an imprecise
  sense, you don't learn the exact location, but can narrow down the source to within a 5-foot cube (or the nearest if
  larger than that).

Illusory Disguise
  You create an illusion that causes you to appear as another creature of the same body shape, and with roughly similar
  height (within 6 inches) and weight (within 50 pounds), as yourself. The disguise is typically good enough to hide
  your identity, but not to impersonate a specific individual. The spell doesn't change your voice, scent, or
  mannerisms. You can change the appearance of your clothing and worn items, such as making your armor look like a
  dress. Held items are unaffected, and any worn item you remove returns to its true appearance.
  Casting illusory disguise counts as setting up a disguise for the Impersonate use of Deception; it ignores any
  circumstance penalties you might take for disguising yourself as a dissimilar creature, it gives you a +4 status bonus
  to Deception checks to prevent others from seeing through your disguise, and you add your level even if you're
  untrained. You can Dismiss this spell.
  ---
  Heightened (2nd) The spell also disguises your voice and scent, and it gains the auditory and olfactory traits.
  Heightened (3rd) You can appear as any creature of the same size, even a specific individual. You must have seen an
  individual to take on their appearance. The spell also disguises your voice and scent, and it gains the auditory and
  olfactory traits.
  Spell Effect: Illusory Disguise

Magic Missile (At Will)
  You send a dart of force streaking toward a creature that you can see. It automatically hits and deals 1d4+1 force
  damage. For each additional action you use when Casting the Spell, increase the number of missiles you shoot by one,
  to a maximum of three missiles for 3 actions. You choose the target for each missile individually. If you shoot more
  than one missile at the same target, combine the damage before applying bonuses or penalties to damage, resistances,
  weaknesses, and so forth.
  ---
  Heightened (+2) You shoot one additional missile with each action you spend.

Ray of Enfeeblement (At Will)
  A ray that saps a foe's strength flashes from your hand. Attempt a ranged spell attack against the target. If you
  succeed, that creature attempts a Fortitude save to determine the spell's effect. If your attack roll is a critical
  success, use the outcome for one degree of success worse than the result of its save.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success The target becomes Enfeebled 1.
  Failure The target becomes Enfeebled 2.
  Critical Failure The target becomes Enfeebled 3.

Sleep (At Will)
  Each creature in the area becomes drowsy and might fall asleep. A creature that falls Unconscious from this spell
  doesn't fall Prone or release what it's holding. This spell doesn't prevent creatures from waking up due to a
  successful Perception check, limiting its utility in combat.
  ---
  Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
  Success The creature takes a -1 status penalty to Perception checks for 1 round.
  Failure The creature falls Unconscious. If it's still Unconscious after 1 minute, it wakes up automatically.
  Critical Failure The creature falls Unconscious. If it's still Unconscious after 1 hour, it wakes up automatically.
  ---
  Heightened (4th) The creatures fall Unconscious for 1 round on a failure or 1 minute on a critical failure. They fall
  Prone and release what they're holding, and they can't attempt Perception checks to wake up. When the duration ends,
  the creature is sleeping normally instead of automatically waking up.

Heartstone
  This gemstone grants its wearer a +2 item bonus to saving throws.
  Each heartstone is powered by the spirit of a specific night hag. If it's separated from her for 24 hours (or she's
  been dead for 24 hours), it becomes a nonmagical gemstone. A heartstone allows the hag to use additional occult innate
  spells: Ethereal Jaunt (9th level) and Seize Soul at will, and Shadow Blast twice per day.
  ---
  Activate 1 command
  Requirements You must be touching the heartstone.
  ---
  Effect The heartstone attempts to counteract one disease affecting you (counteract rank 5, counteract modifier +18).
  ---
  Craft Requirements You must be a night hag.

Coven
  A night hag adds Dominate, Nightmare, Scrying, and Spellwrack to her coven's spells.
  ---
  PF2E.NPC.Abilities.Glossary.Coven

Nightmare Rider
  When a night hag rides a Nightmare, the nightmare also gains the night hag's status bonus to saves against magic, and
  both the hag and rider benefit when the night hag uses her Heartstone's Ethereal Jaunt innate spell.

Constant Spells
  PF2E.NPC.Abilities.Glossary.ConstantSpells

Abyssal Plague
  A creature can't recover from drained until abyssal plague is cured.
  Saving Throw Fortitude DC 28
  Stage 1 Drained 1 (1 day)
  Stage 2 Drained increases by 2 (1 day)

Change Shape
  The night hag can take on the appearance of any Medium female humanoid. This doesn't change her Speed or her attack
  and damage bonuses with her Strikes, but might change the damage type her Strikes deal (typically to bludgeoning).
  ---
  PF2E.NPC.Abilities.Glossary.ChangeShape

Dream Haunting
  If a night hag is ethereal and hovering over a sleeping chaotic or evil creature, she can ride the victim's back until
  dawn. The creature endures tormenting dreams as the hag casts Nightmare on it, and is exposed to abyssal plague. Any
  drained caused by dream haunting is cumulative.
  Only an ethereal being can confront the night hag and stop her dream haunting.

Spell Ambush
  A creature Off Guard to the night hag takes a -2 circumstance penalty to checks and DCs to defend against her spells.

Source and edition
  Publication: Pathfinder Bestiary
  Pack: Bestiary 1 (pathfinder-bestiary)
  Edition: legacy
  Counterparts: verified: none
