Areelu Vorlesh
  Type: creature · Pack: Revenge of the Runelords
  Key: revenge-of-the-runelords-bestiary:igeNfVBZBcIkCzcZ

Classification
  Level: 20
  Rarity: unique
  Traits: human, humanoid, mythic, nephilim, unholy
  Size: med
  Source: Pathfinder #221: Into the Apocalypse Archive

Defenses
  AC: 44
  HP: current 400; maximum 400; temporary 0
  Fortitude: 36
  Reflex: 32
  Will: 34
  Resistances: mythic 10
  Weaknesses: cold-iron 20, holy 20

Awareness and abilities
  Perception: +34; darkvision, truesight
  Initiative: perception
  Languages: aklo, chthonian, common, diabolic, draconic, dwarven, elven,
             empyrean, fey, halfling, hallit, jotun, necril, sakvroth, gnomish,
             orcish
  Abilities: Str +4, Dex +8, Con +10, Int +10, Wis +6, Cha +10
  Acrobatics: +34
  Arcana: +38
  Athletics: +32
  Deception: +38
  Diplomacy: +36
  Intimidation: +38
  Occultism: +38
  Religion: +34
  Society: +36

Movement
  land: 25 feet
  fly: 35 feet

Strikes
  - Dagger — [1 action]
    Traits: agile, finesse, versatile-s
    Attack: attack +39
    Damage: 1d6 spirit
    Damage: 1d4 spirit
    Damage: 4d4+12 piercing
  - Claw — [1 action]
    Traits: agile, finesse, magical, unarmed, unholy
    Attack: attack +36
    Damage: 2d6 spirit
    Damage: 4d8+12 slashing

Activities
  - Remove a Condition — [1 action]
    Traits: concentrate
    Category: interaction
  - Constant Spells — passive
    Category: interaction
  - Mythic Resilience (Fortitude and Will) — passive
    Category: defensive
  - Rejection Vulnerability — passive
    Category: defensive
  - Undying Myth — [free action]
    Category: defensive
  - Embrace — [1 action]
    Category: offensive
  - Kiss of Locusts — [1 action]
    Traits: divine, emotion, mental, unholy
    Category: offensive
  - Recharge — [1 action]
    Traits: concentrate
    Category: offensive
  - Reroll — [free action]
    Traits: fortune
    Category: offensive

Spellcasting
  - Divine Innate Spells — innate · divine
    Attack: +34
    DC: 42
    Rank 9
      - Overwhelming Presence — [2 actions]
        Traits: auditory, concentrate, incapacitation, manipulate, mental,
                visual
        Target: any number of creatures
        Time: 2
      - Wails of the Damned — [2 actions]
        Traits: auditory, concentrate, death, manipulate, void
        Time: 2
        Damage: 8d10 void damage
      - Execute — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, death, manipulate, void
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
        Damage: 70 void damage
      - Truesight (Constant) — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, revelation
        Time: 2
      - Dispel Magic — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate
        Target: 1 spell effect or unattended magic item
        Range: 120 feet
        Time: 2
    Rank 7
      - Warp Mind — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, emotion, incapacitation, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 120 feet
        Time: 2
    Rank 10
      - Dominate — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, incapacitation, manipulate, mental
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
    Rank 8
      - Vampiric Exsanguination — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, death, manipulate, void
        Time: 2
        Damage: 12d6 void damage
      - Divine Immolation — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, fire, manipulate, sanctified, spirit
        Range: 120 feet
        Time: 2
        Damage: 6d6 fire damage
      - Divine Wrath — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, sanctified, spirit
        Range: 120 feet
        Time: 2
        Damage: 4d10 spirit damage
    Rank 1
      - Divine Lance — [2 actions]
        Traits: attack, cantrip, concentrate, manipulate, sanctified, spirit
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: 60 feet
        Time: 2
        Damage: 2d4 spirit damage
      - Shield — [1 action]
        Traits: cantrip, concentrate, force
        Time: 1
      - Void Warp — [2 actions]
        Traits: cantrip, concentrate, manipulate, void
        Target: 1 living creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
        Damage: 2d4 void damage

Overwhelming Presence
  You surround yourself with supernatural splendor, appearing to be a god or
  similarly majestic being, with an appearance, regalia, and iconography of your
  choice. Targets must attempt a Will save. Regardless of the outcome, the
  target is then temporarily immune for 1 minute.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success The target must pay tribute to you two times. Paying tribute requires
  that the target spend a single action, which has either the move trait (as
  they bow) or manipulate trait (as they offer up a token in their hands). They
  must pay tribute at least once on each of their turns, if possible. While
  affected, the target is Fascinated by you and can't use hostile actions
  against you.
  Failure As success, but the target must pay tribute a total of six times.
  Critical Failure As failure, but the target must spend all its actions paying
  tribute, and they cannot take other actions until the tribute is fully paid.

Summary
  Female cambion demoniac

Wails of the Damned
  You howl a lament of damned souls. Each living enemy in the area takes 8d10
  void damage and must attempt a Fortitude save.
  ---
  Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
  Success The creature takes full damage.
  Failure The creature takes full damage and is Drained 1d4.
  Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is Drained 4.

Execute
  You point at a creature and invoke the demise of all things. The target takes
  70 void damage with a basic Fortitude save. If the target is undead or
  otherwise has void healing, the spell loses the death and void traits and
  gains the vitality trait, and the target takes 70 vitality damage with a basic
  Fortitude save.
  ---
  Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 10.

Warp Mind
  You scramble a creature's mental faculties and sensory input. The target must
  attempt a Will saving throw. Regardless of the result of that save, the target
  is then temporarily immune for 10 minutes. Warp mind's effects happen
  instantly, so Dispel Magic and other effects that counteract spells can't
  counteract them. However, Wish rituals and abilities that can remove
  non-magical effects can still counteract the effects.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success The target spends the first action on its next turn with the Confused
  condition.
  Failure The target is Confused for 1 minute.
  Critical Failure The target is Confused permanently.

Dominate
  You take command of the target, forcing it to obey your orders. If you issue
  an obviously self-destructive order, the target doesn't act until you issue a
  new order. The effect depends on its Will save.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success The target is Stunned 1 as it fights off your commands.
  Failure You control the target. It gains the Controlled condition, but it can
  attempt a Will save at the end of each of its turns. On a success, the spell
  ends.
  Critical Failure As a failure, but the target receives a new save only if you
  give it a new order that is against its nature, such as killing its allies.
  ---
  Heightened (10th) The duration is unlimited.

Truesight (Constant)
  You see things within 60 feet as they actually are. The GM rolls a secret
  counteract check against any illusion, morph or polymorph effect in the area,
  but only for the purpose of determining whether you see through it (for
  instance, if the check succeeds against a polymorph spell, you can see the
  creature's true form, but you don't end the polymorph spell).

Vampiric Exsanguination
  You draw in the blood and life force of other creatures through your
  outstretched arms. You deal 12d6 void damage to living creatures in the area
  with a basic Fortitude save.
  You gain temporary Hit Points equal to half the damage a single creature takes
  from this spell; calculate these temporary Hit Points using the creature that
  took the most damage. You lose any remaining temporary Hit Points after 1
  minute.
  ---
  Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.

Divine Immolation
  Divine flames scour creatures within the area. Creatures take 6d6 fire damage
  and (@item.level -3)d6[persistent,fire] damage. The divine power within the
  flames scorches the spirit as well; a creature takes spirit damage instead of
  fire damage from divine immolation if that would be more detrimental to the
  creature (as determined by the GM).
  ---
  Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
  Success The creature takes half damage and no persistent damage.
  Failure The creature takes full damage and persistent damage.
  Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and double persistent
  damage.
  ---
  Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6 and persistent damage increases by
  1d6.

Divine Wrath
  You channel the fury of divinity against your foes. You deal 4d10 spirit
  damage to enemies in the area, depending on their Fortitude save.
  ---
  Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
  Success The creature takes half damage.
  Failure The creature takes full damage and is Sickened 1.
  Critical Failure The creature takes full damage and is Sickened 2; while it's
  sickened, it's also Slowed 1.
  ---
  Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10.

Dispel Magic
  You unravel the magic behind a spell or effect. Attempt a counteract check
  against the target. If you successfully counteract a magic item, the item
  becomes a mundane item of its type for 10 minutes. This doesn't change the
  item's non-magical properties. If the target is an artifact or similar item,
  you automatically fail.

Divine Lance
  You unleash a beam of divine energy. Make a ranged spell attack against the
  target's AC. On a hit, the target takes 2d4 spirit damage (double damage on a
  critical hit).
  ---
  Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4.

Shield
  You raise a magical shield of force. This counts as using the Raise a Shield
  action, giving you a +1 circumstance bonus to AC until the start of your next
  turn, but it doesn't require a hand to use.
  While the spell is in effect, you can use the Shield Block reaction with your
  magic shield. The shield has Hardness 5. You can use the spell's reaction to
  reduce damage from any spell or magical effect, even if it doesn't deal
  physical damage. After you use Shield Block, the spell ends and you can't cast
  it again for 10 minutes.
  Spell Effect: Shield
  Effect: Shield Immunity
  ---
  Heightened (+2) The shield's Hardness increases by 5.

Void Warp
  You call upon the Void to harm life force. The target takes 2d4 void damage
  with a basic Fortitude save. On a critical failure, the target is also
  Enfeebled 1 until the start of your next turn.
  ---
  Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4.

Dagger
  This small, bladed weapon is held in one hand and used to stab a creature in
  close combat. It can also be thrown.

Remove a Condition
  Cost 1 Mythic Point
  ---
  Effect Areelu ends one condition affecting her.

Constant Spells
  PF2E.NPC.Abilities.Glossary.ConstantSpells

Mythic Resilience (Fortitude and Will)
  The creature treats its saving throws with the associated save as one degree
  of success better than it rolled. This is not cumulative with other effects
  that change their degree of success, like the incapacitation trait (except for
  rolling a natural 1 or 20). Each time the monster gains mythic resilience,
  choose one save. The ability should apply to the creature's highest saves
  first.

Rejection Vulnerability
  Areelu Vorlesh's apotheosis into a demon has made her vulnerable to rejection
  like a succubus. When Areelu fails a Deception check to Embrace or Lie, or
  when a creature succeeds at its save against her mental spells or abilities,
  she takes 6d6[mental] damage. For 1 hour after causing mental damage to Areelu
  in this way, the creature can deal 6d6[mental] damage to her with a successful
  Demoralize action incorporating its rejection.

Undying Myth
  Cost all of Areelu's Mythic Points
  Trigger Areelu would die and has at least 1 Mythic Point
  ---
  Effect Areelu remains standing and conscious and recovers 200[healing] Hit
  Points.

Embrace
  Areelu attempts to grapple skill=deception a creature using her Deception
  bonus instead of Athletics. If the creature is willing, Areelu automatically
  succeeds.

Kiss of Locusts
  Frequency once per round
  ---
  Effect Areelu engages a creature she has Grabbed or Restrained in an embrace
  or other act of passion, creating an opportunity for a cloud of locusts to
  enter the creature's body. The creature takes 5d6[persistent,bleed] damage and
  is Sickened 2 and Off Guard for as long as they remain sickened.

Recharge
  Cost 1 Mythic Point
  ---
  Effect Areelu regains an expended spell slot.

Reroll
  Cost 1 Mythic Point
  Trigger Areelu fails a check
  ---
  Effect Areelu rerolls the check.

Source and edition
  Publication: Pathfinder #221: Into the Apocalypse Archive
  Pack: Revenge of the Runelords (revenge-of-the-runelords-bestiary)
  Edition: remaster
  Counterparts: verified: none

Data availability
  Unmodeled skill entry
    Key: craft
    Modifier: +36
    The source supplied an unrecognized skill key.
  Unsupported capability
    Key: weapon
    The source supplied an unsupported creature capability.
