Gray Master
  Type: creature · Pack: Curtain Call
  Key: curtain-call-bestiary:1eX4Csnv3psAsfLf

Classification
  Level: 20
  Rarity: unique
  Traits: incorporeal, undead, unholy
  Size: med
  Source: Pathfinder #206: Bring the House Down

Defenses
  AC: 43
  HP: current 280; maximum 280; temporary 0; void healing
  Fortitude: 28
  Reflex: 37
  Will: 34
  Immunities: bleed, confused, death-effects, disease, paralyzed, poison, unconscious
  Resistances: all-damage 15 (except force, ghost-touch, vitality)

Awareness and abilities
  Perception: +34; greater-darkvision
  Initiative: perception
  Languages: common, diabolic
  Abilities: Str -5, Dex +7, Con +0, Int +6, Wis +6, Cha +7
  Acrobatics: +35
  Deception: +36
  Intimidation: +38
  Society: +34
  Stealth: +37
  Thievery: +35
  Norgorber Lore: +34
  Vyre Lore: +36

Movement
  land: 0 feet
  fly: 30 feet

Strikes
  - Bite — [1 action]
    Traits: agile, finesse, magical
    Attack: attack +37
    Damage: 4d10+10 piercing

Activities
  - Glide Aside — [reaction]
    Traits: move
    Category: defensive
  - Ignore Gauntlet Traps — passive
    Category: defensive
  - Power of the Trap — passive
    Category: defensive
  - Scry Trap — [reaction]
    Traits: divine
    Category: defensive
    Frequency: 1 per minute
  - Void Healing — passive
    Category: defensive
  - Brushed by Death — [2 actions]
    Category: offensive
  - Infectious Delirium — [1 action]
    Traits: divine, emotion, fear, mental
    Category: offensive
    Frequency: 1 per minute
  - Sneak Attack — passive
    Category: offensive
  - Wrath of the Trap — [2 actions]
    Traits: divine
    Category: offensive
    Frequency: 1 per round

Spellcasting
  - Occult Innate Spells — innate · occult
    Attack: +33
    DC: 41
    Rank 9
      - Seize Soul — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, unholy
        Cost: item worth at least the target's level x 100 gp
        Target: 1 creature that died within the last minute
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
      - Possession — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, incapacitation, manipulate, mental, possession
        Target: 1 living creature
        Range: 30 feet
        Time: 2
    Rank 8
      - Disappearance — [2 actions]
        Traits: illusion, manipulate, subtle
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: touch
        Time: 2
    Rank 10
      - Collective Transposition — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, teleportation
        Target: up to 2 creatures
        Time: 2
      - Truespeech (Constant) — [2 actions]
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate
        Target: 1 creature
        Range: touch
        Time: 2
    Rank 5
      - Scouting Eye (At Will) — 1 minute
        Traits: concentrate, manipulate, scrying
        Range: see text
        Time: 1 minute

Lore
  - Norgorber Lore — +34
  - Vyre Lore — +36

Public Notes
  A geist is an ever-shifting mass of black sack cloth, teeth, and mouths, folding in and out of itself and cackling
  like a thousand frenzied and doomed souls. Created when a haunt kills an evil person, a geist rises from a soul
  trapped on the plane of their demise, now connected to the dark energy radiating from haunts everywhere. They wander
  the world, looking for solace and never finding it. In frustration, they turn their malice back onto the living,
  antagonizing any nearby creatures, hoping to fatally lure their victims into the clutches of a haunt to be turned into
  another geist and share the torment.
  Geists are occasionally mistaken for other incorporeal undead, such as wraiths and ghosts, but their proximity to
  haunts is one of the surest ways to determine the nature of the undead being encountered.

Summary
  Male variant geist

Seize Soul
  You trap the target's soul in the item before the soul can pass on to the afterlife. The item used to contain the soul
  can be anything as long as it's of the appropriate value. The item has AC 16 and its normal Hardness and HP.
  Destroying (not just breaking) an item or counteracting seize soul releases the soul to the afterlife.
  While the soul is in the item, the target can't be returned to life through any means, even powerful magic such as a
  Wish ritual. If the item is destroyed or seize soul is counteracted on the item, the soul is freed. An item can't hold
  more than one soul, and any attempt wastes the spell.
  You can also target an item that has had a soul trapped it in with a second casting of seize soul, which destroys the
  item and either releases the soul or relocates it to a different item, whichever you choose. This fails if the target
  is an artifact or the trapped soul is a creature of 19th level or higher.

Disappearance
  You shroud a creature from others' senses. The target becomes Invisible, but not merely to vision. The invisibility
  granted by disappearance applies to all precise senses an observer might have. It's still possible for a creature to
  find the target by Seeking using various senses, looking for disturbed dust, hearing gaps in the sound spectrum, or
  finding some other way to discover the presence of a creature that is otherwise undetectable.

Possession
  You send your mind and soul into the target's body, attempting to take control. The target must attempt a Will save.
  If you want to exert less control over the target, you can choose to use the effects of any degree of success more
  favorable to the target.
  While you're possessing a target, your own body is Unconscious and can't wake up normally. You can sense everything
  the possessed target does. You can Dismiss this spell. If the possessed body dies, the spell ends and you must succeed
  at a Fortitude save against your spell DC or be Paralyzed for 1 hour, or 24 hours on a critical failure. If the spell
  ends during an encounter, you act just before the possessed creature's initiative.
  ---
  Critical Success The target is unaffected.
  Success You possess the target but can't control it. You ride along in the body while the spell lasts.
  Failure You possess the target and take partial control of it. You no longer have a separate turn; instead, you might
  control the target. At the start of each of the target's turns, it attempts another Will save. If it fails, it's
  controlled by you on that turn; if it succeeds, it chooses its own actions; and if it critically succeeds, it forces
  you out and the spell ends.
  Critical Failure You possess the target fully, and it can only watch as you manipulate it like a puppet. The target is
  controlled by you.
  ---
  Heightened (9th) The duration is 10 minutes, and you can physically enter the creature's body, protecting your
  physical body while the spell lasts.

Collective Transposition
  You teleport the targets to new positions within the area. The creatures must each be able to fit in their new space,
  and their positions must be unoccupied, entirely within the area, and in your line of sight. Unwilling creatures can
  attempt a Will save.
  ---
  Critical Success The target can teleport if it wants, but it chooses the destination within range.
  Success The target is unaffected.
  Failure You teleport the target and choose its destination.
  ---
  Heightened (+1) The number of targets increases by 1.

Scouting Eye (At Will)
  You create an Invisible, floating eye, 1 inch in diameter, at a location you can see within 500 feet. It sees in all
  directions with your normal visual senses and continuously transmits what it sees to you.
  The first time you Sustain the spell each round, you can either move the eye up to 30 feet, seeing only things in
  front of the eye, or move it up to 10 feet, seeing everything in all directions around it. There is no limit to how
  far from you the eye can move, but the spell ends immediately if you and the eye ever cease to be on the same plane of
  existence. You can attempt Seek actions through the eye if you want to attempt Perception checks with it. Any damage
  dealt to the eye destroys it and ends the spell.

Truespeech (Constant)
  The target can understand all words regardless of language and also speak the languages of other creatures. When in a
  mixed group of creatures, each time the target speaks, it can choose a creature and speak in a language that creature
  understands, even if the target doesn't know what language that is.
  ---
  Heightened (7th) The duration is 8 hours.

Glide Aside
  Trigger A Strike targeting Gray Master fails or critically fails
  ---
  Effect Gray Master dodges and redirects the attack to a creature adjacent to him and within reach of the triggering
  Strike. The attacker rerolls the Strike's attack roll against the new target.

Ignore Gauntlet Traps
  Gray Master does not trigger any of the traps in his Gauntlet, and cannot be damaged by them.

Power of the Trap
  As long as there's at least one trap in Gray Master's Gauntlet that isn't disabled or destroyed, Gray Master gains a
  +2 status bonus to AC and saving throws and deals an additional 1d6 spirit damage with his bite Strikes. Gray Master
  is automatically aware of any trap in his Gauntlet as soon as it is triggered, and also as soon as it is disabled or
  destroyed.

Scry Trap
  Frequency once per minute
  Trigger Gray Master senses a trap activate in his Gauntlet via Power of the Trap
  ---
  Effect Gray Master casts scouting eye, but instead of creating an invisible, floating eye, he uses the triggering trap
  as the eye, and can see in all directions from it. He can Sustain the spell normally, and can continue to view through
  the trap even if it deactivates without being disabled or destroyed, but can't move his point of view away from it. If
  the trap is destroyed or disabled while Gray Master is observing through it, the spell ends and Gray Master takes
  4d6[mental] damage (Will DC 40 save).

Void Healing
  PF2E.NPC.Abilities.Glossary.NegativeHealing

Brushed by Death
  Gray Master Flies once and makes a Strike against up to three targets he passes through at his current attack
  modifier. Each attack counts toward his multiple attack penalty, but he does not increase his penalty until he has
  made all three attacks. Gray Master cannot use Brushed by Death again for 1d4 rounds.

Infectious Delirium
  Frequency once per minute
  ---
  Effect Gray Master unleashes a blast of stilted laughter in a emanation, lasting until the beginning of his next turn.
  Any creature in the area or entering it must succeed at a Will DC 39 save or be overcome with conflicting thoughts,
  becoming Stupefied 3 (and also Confused for 1 minute on a critical failure). A creature attempts only one save per
  Infectious Delirium, and a creature that succeeds on its saving throw is temporarily immune for 24 hours.

Sneak Attack
  Gray Master deals 3d6 extra precision damage to creatures who are Off Guard.

Wrath of the Trap
  Frequency once per round
  Requirements Gray Master is within 100 feet of an active complex trap
  ---
  Effect Gray Master absorbs the power of the complex trap. It becomes inactive until the end of his next turn, and
  Power of the Trap deactivates until the complex trap becomes active again. The edges of Gray Master's cloak transform
  into knife-like blades that stab out at all nearby creatures. Any living creature within 10 feet of Gray Master takes
  8d10 slashing damage and 8d6 void damage (Reflex DC 40 save).

Provenance and edition
  Publication: Pathfinder #206: Bring the House Down
  Pack: Curtain Call (curtain-call-bestiary)
  Source path: packs/curtain-call-bestiary/book-3-bring-the-house-down/gray-master.json
  Foundry: Actor / npc
  Edition: remaster
  Counterparts: verified: none
  Contract: pf2e-serialized-source/v1
  System: 6.12.4
  Upstream commit: 4cbdaa37d6c33e9519561bae2c59a23e0288cbce
